hey how you doing youtubers this is
Rocco from north-south survival I'm just
going to show you some basic knife
sharpening techniques basic techniques
that I use that maybe you can come in
handy for you and let's get a closer
look okay so this is basically a smith
smith's sharpening stone basic stone to
probably purchase this for around I
think I got this for about I don't know
12 or 14 bucks comes with a flat stone
on the top and a polishing stone as well
it fits kind of underneath right here it
cooks in so basically I have a more
clipper here I'll do a review on that
later and basically what we're going to
do is teach you just a basic sharpening
method that I like to use that that kind
of helps I know there's a ton of ways to
do this there's a ton of different kinds
of stones a ton of different kinds of
grits there's a million different
methods to sharpen a knife but basically
what we're looking for is just to
sharpen the knife if you're in the field
and you need to keep your edge on your
knife this here's a more clipper this is
some more clipper carbon steel blade a
very good Bush knife I'll actually do a
review on this at a later date but
basically this is how I do it
I basically take a bowl of water you can
use a honing oil as well whichever
method you like doesn't really matter
this you want a little bit of
lubrication between the knife and the
stone and this is just a very simple
method in the field basically what
you're going to do is going to take your
knife and you're going to hold you're
going to see where your grind is and
what you want to do is take the top of
your knife and hold the angle of the
grind to the stone you don't need a lot
of pressure okay
so what you want to do is just push the
knife very gently
sharpening the whole side of the blade
that's one pass that's two passes you
don't need a lot of pressure here just
you want to hone the blade basically
that's the rate
for
five now I basically do around five
passes do it on each side so what I'll
do is I'll flip the knife over make sure
you hold the angle of your grind
whichever knife you have and just come
right down to the tip
and that's five passes you basically
check it you know check your knife see
how it's coming out that's it you know
basically what you want to do keep your
stone wet with some honing oil or some
water this water works fine same method
bring it back to the tip one pass not a
lot of pressure you don't want to kill
the blade you just want to keep the
angle the most important thing is to
keep the angle of the blade like that
like that flip it over same thing on the
other side while keeping the egg
after you're done with that check your
blade and this is basically like a
polishing stone what we have here so wet
that as well
this kind of polishes up to blade a
little bit fine-tunes it a little bit
same thing hold it to your angle your
grind straight pass
same thing flip it over kind of polishes
up the blade a little bit and that's
basically it this is a nice little piece
of equipment right here the sharpening
stone because basically what I can do is
put the polishing blade in like that
actually take this now you can take it
in your rug and your bag you know throw
it in your pack and basically what you
have is you know a little something
sharpen your blade yeah they do sell the
smaller ones that are portable and
compact you can carry that too but you
know something nice to keep keep an edge
on your knife in the field and there it
is knife sharpening 101 this is Rocco
from North South survival
take care